# OrbitDB Community Call January 21, 2020

- **Moderator:** @RichardLitt
- **Notetaker:** @RichardLitt
- **Attendees:**
    - Joel @oed (3box)
    - Gyuri (Trailmarks)
    - anders
    - @aphelionz
    - Mike Sterle-Contala (3Box)
    - @RichardLitt

## Agenda
From @gyuri:

- Private IPFS/OrbitDb networks with their own signalling server
    - Set up his own signalling server, set up IPFS in the early days
    - Couldn't find information on a private IPFS network
    - Any idea how to do that?
        - You can get a gen/key
        - Share that file with other nodes, off-band. Anytime a node starts up that shares the same swarm key, then it is a private network.
        - Everything that works on IPFS will work on a private-IPFS network, but content will be limited. Search will work on that, though.
    - Setting up a rendezvous server
        - In the new version, DHT-support is built in (possibly poorly performant)
        - Might have been fixed in recent weeks.
        - If you want a semi-private network, you want to run your own
        - Connect with Mark after to share with that
    - https://mrh.io/ipfs-private-networks/
- Public Request/Response conduits forming a social gossip network local-first "Apps without borders" interoperability
    - Could you create a lot of OrbitDB networks?
        - Yes, you'll be limited by IPFS
        - It'll create a LevelDB instance, either in the FS or in the browser
        - What's the largest number of OrbitDB that you've encountered in the wild
        - You'll have IndexDB limitations
        - 3box has around 300 on the server, and that's about where they ran into issues and had to scale out
- Mike: PR that he submitted on the peer-exchange event
    - @aphelionz: yes! We want to merge that! On our todo list. 
    - If tests pass, we can probably work onit. Hit @mark up on Twitter.
- https://hub.opidox.com/app/
