# OrbitDB Community Call November 27

- **Moderator:** @haadcode
- **Notetaker:** @shamb0t
- **Attendees:**
    - @haadcode
    - @shamb0t
    - @aphelionz
    - @vvp

## Moderator checklist

- [ ] Ensure that the moderator last week is the notetaker, or that someone else has volunteered
- [ ] Call for additional agenda items

## Agenda
_General discussions, decisions, etc._
<!-- use this format for all topics, demos, etc. that you add to the agenda: -->
- semantics of "synced" (@haadcode)
    - https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db/issues/509
    - Hard to understand when db is "synced". We have a 'replicated' event to indicate some part of db has synced.
        - When should we let user know about change in state?
        - Becomes hard to say when db is 'synced'
            - For example: have db -> receive 10 entries from 1 peer -> when all 10 entries loaded the 'replicated' event is triggered
            - However *no way of knowing that was "all" data*, it is just what peer knows about
            - What if while loading, new entries are added but how to know when "fully synced" (essentially race). If you have a high rate of updates, db is never really "fully synced", can we rely on notion of when all entries "known" are loaded but there is still new stuff coming in. How do we make this easier? Sending a "synced" event is same as sending the "replicated" event.
            - Can we separate "events" per peer? Eg "I know I've received all of peer1s events"....this may require synchromization
                - even if you synchronise, you only know the state in your partition
                - from users perspective it is always safe to display data as long as youhave something there and we should embrace theh idea that theres no way to know when you have "all the data"
            - where are we failing to explain this to user? Either in documentation, perhaps we can ask people who need this if extra primitive makes sense but not sure we should take this responsibility or if users should handle this one layer up
            - What are pitfalls?
                - coordination overhead
                - malicious actors can be lying about the history
                - this basically requires consensus
            - Chat app analogy:
                - new peers join and have different start-points, regardless of what you know about network and state of db, if you have access you can start using and appending
            - Git analogy: maybe we can write guide to compare with git as devs understand this model....can be confusing as orbitdb doesnt have braches, only one "head" while ipfs-log has many "heads"
            - Taking a look at [jupyter doc](https://github.com/orbitdb/ipfs-log/blob/feat/jupyter-test/doc/Usage.ipynb), we can use this to explain how the merging and traversal works, tails is a good section for the 'when fully-synced' issue
            - Basically there isnt an easy way to do that, we should embrace that there's eventual consistency and no sunchronization, should user need that, it is their responsibility to build that on top
- move the call 1h later
    - its early for east coast and middle of night for west coast, we could move call to 2pm UTC starting next call
- orbitdb iframe magic (zachferland/oed, 5min)
    - Service or proxy to replace orbit-db-cache in order to share data between browser tabs in browser, there's a [PR open](https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db/pull/507) would be good to add test
