# OrbitDB Community Call February 5th, 2019

- **Moderator:** @shamb0t
- **Notetaker:** @RichardLitt
- **Attendees:**
- @RichardLitt
- @shamb0t
- @aphelionz
- @dteiml
- @oed

## Agenda
- OrbitDB Roadmap (@shambot)
    - New release: Access control features, and being able to dynamically add write-keys. Currently, to change the people who can write, you have to add a new OrbitDB address
    - ipfs-log iterator: @aphelionz is about to add a PR to the spec to make this better. Should be up within an hour. https://github.com/orbitdb/ipfs-log. This is way down in the core of the CRDT-log library, which forms the basis of everything from ipfs on up. We're refactoring based on IPLD, and dynamically traversing the log instead of loading it all into memory. You specify a start hash and an end hash, and then have a proper js function that pops around in there.
    - ipfs-log loading: @shamb0t will be adding references to ipfs-log to make loading faster
- **[Solvio](https://solvio.discourse.group)**: a decentralized education system.  I'd love to discuss the current state of the art when it comes to public databases secured by cryptography, and whether it's at a level where it can be used in production for a consumer app. (@dteimi)
    - 👋 I'm Dominik, I live in Prague, work as a smart contract with solidity with Gnosis. Starting working on a decentralized education system soon, full time. We want the ability for everyone to learn any way they want, and to get credentials for it. Our proposal is not to used a centralized database for storing data, but instead a public database. ... 
    - What I want to get from this call: If you would recommend that we go this route, and what advice you have there. Can OrbitDB support the features we need? Is it production ready? 
    - @aphelionz: We've done some work in this space (I've done this, for instance). The short answer is that it works, and it works too well... There's a risk where keys can be lost, which can take away value from a network (for instance, via death). 
    - @dom one of the things I'm working on at Gnosis is 2FA for eth. I have some experience in this space.... The private key being on the app, and never shown to the user (students, mainy), and also the possibility to recover your key. For instance, if you lose one device, you can get it back with another device, with a 12-word mnemnonic or a social way of recovering keys. But, really, I'm more interested in the db. Because I don't have a DB background.
    - @shamb0t: You do have to think about it differently if you're building a decentralized app. There's not one db holding all records, but instead many small dbs. Each user has their own DB  which they can replicate with other people. It has to do with designing a p2p network. You need to think about how to model the data slightly differently.
    - @dom: Does OrbitDB use elliptic curve crypto?
    - @aphelionz: We don't do that at the moment. That's at the application layer. 
    - @shams: OrbitDB does sign the entry, but it doesn't encrypt anything, just your signature and your keys.
    - @dominik: Any other projects in this space? IPDB, and Gunn? What are the differing goals.
    - @shamb0t: Another one is Scuttlebutt. 
    - @dominik: maybe I'll get one of my project teammates to join the next call. 
    - @oed: I wrote a Medium post comparing dbs. https://medium.com/3box/3box-research-comparing-distributed-databases-gun-orbitdb-and-scuttlebutt-2e3b5da34ef3
    - @dom: Are you part of IPFS?
    - @RichardLitt: No, we've split off and our own company now. We still work with their team.
    - @oed: Take a look at 3Box, which might be able to be extended to meet your use case.
    - @dom: What we're planning for the MVP is a way for you to submit all of your sources, and then a review. There'll be a dependency for a specific resource on cryptography ...
    - @oed: Do you know about verifiable claims? Verifiable claims: https://www.w3.org/TR/verifiable-claims-data-model/
    - @dom: The data layer is one part? The computation layer? What do you use for ... (learnig paths?)? Decentralized computation, like Golem? 
    - @shams: not in particular, it's like any app...Another one is TrueBit. @aphelionz: Computer is another one, recently aquired by MagicLeap
    - @RichardLitt: You can also message us on Gitter. https://gitter.im/orbitdb/Lobby
    - @dom: Are you planning to integrate with Filecoin? 
    - @RichardLitt: Yeah! Anyone can use FileCoin to pin IPFS hashes.
    - @aphelionz: And, anything that supports get and put, such as Filecoin, will be able to work on top of IPFS. (May have miswritten - RichardLitt)
    - @dom: Is there some level of immutability for the db?
    - @shams: ipfs-log itself is an immutable log. On top of that we build the store, the kv-store. The log is immutable.  https://github.com/orbitdb/ipfs-log/blob/feat/jupyter-test/doc/Usage.ipynb
    - @dom: I'm going to checkout out protoschool
    - @RichardLitt: Let us know how that goes!
    - @dom: What's the difference between a blockchain and a db? Why can't you have money on OrbitDB? Is double-spending part of this?
    - @shams: There's no safety with double saving. OrbitDB is eventually consistent, while blockchains are strongly consistent. There's no guarantee in OrbitDB that everyone will be at the same space.
    - ... (Missed some about staking, sorry - RichardLitt)

    - Feel free to add to the [FAQ](https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db/blob/master/FAQ.md) (especially for a note on strong vs. eventual consistency!)
    
    Thanks all!
