# OrbitDB Community Call January 22nd

- **Moderator:** RichardLitt
- **Notetaker:** Mark
- **Attendees:** Richard, Shams, Haad, Mark, Joel, Juuso

## Moderator checklist

- [ ] Ensure that the moderator last week is the notetaker, or that someone else has volunteered
- [ ] Call for additional agenda items

## Agenda
- Community docs (@RichardLItt, 2 minutes)
    - Perhaps validate JSON before committing? https://jsonlint.com/
    - Richard will do sweeps/greps/etc before merging.
- ipfs-log
    - Working with satazor on a number of issues, just had a nice big merge changing the way args pass
    - Opens up a few more doors to get the rest of those tickets done.
    - Collaboration is 75% of the way there! Means more community members can become involved, more projects, which is awesome.
    - Nice springboard for future discussions.
    - @shams has also broght these changes into OrbitDB.
    - Should probably pull the reading/writing logic out of ipfs-log, as we also use it in OrbitDB
- New js-ipfs release with pubsub, with performance improvements. Exciting.
    - Not sure how directly that influences us, but this is cool.
    - They're also working on DHT stuff in the browser. Excited to watch more future stuff there.
    - As a result, we have a number of tickets for people not understanding how the examples work - which is what bleeding-edge tech is all about.
- Working with frige tech: the raw facts
    - Stuff will break!
    - We will work to keep things backwards compatibile as much as we can
- What can we do to ensure future PRs/versions work?
    - Pin specific minor versions
    - Update documentation
    - Use PR templates / Issue templates, etc
- Access-controller; how does the revoke functionality work?
    - @shamb0t; we don't support revocation for dynamic keys, because of what happens to previous entries in the log.
    - Multiple possibilities for how to handle revocation - keep entries from revoked entity, rewrite them, delete them, etc?
    - @oed will write up their use case in GitHub or Gitter
- Logo
    - Buy stickers! https://stickermule.com

## Q&A, Help Wanted, Demos
_Ask questions, get answers. Announce issues that need help, get people to help. And show your work, or suggest links for https://github.com/orbitdb/awesome-orbitdb!_

<!-- After each call, it is the responsibility of the notetaker to save the last version of the notes in a file in orbitdb/welcome/meeting-notes, by opening a branch and submitting a PR. Then, post in the Gitter that the call is over, especially if it was a short call. -->
