# OrbitDB Community Call $DATE

- **Moderator:** @aphelionz
- **Notetaker:** @shamb0t
- **Attendees:**
- @Richardlitt
- @shamb0t
- @aphelionz
- @oed

## Agenda
- Load Optimization for IPFS Log.
    - Very promising optimization
    - Not deterministically partial-loading

- pinning entries for ipfs garbage-collection: https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db-io/pull/8

- Store.load is confusing to people (when passing length into load, last `length` operations returned)
- Zach's [PR](https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db/pull/688) from 3Box
    - issue is heads not getting set when new Store created
    - potential solution: async createStore method in odb-store @shamb0t has a wip [PR](https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db/pull/723) in place, fixing tests

- FAQ question:
    - @RichardLitt wrote this, and would like feedback on it before merging it into OrbitDB.

> Does OrbitDB natively allow for a multi-writer capability permission model?

BY default, if you allow `*` access to the access controller, like so:

`orbitdb.feed('name', { accessController: { write ['*'] }})`

To allow specific keys to write to the database, pass the keys as strings like so:

`orbitdb.feed('name', { accessController: { write ['key1', 'key2'] }}) // keys cannot be revoked`

Allows anyone to write to the db. If you specify keys, the process involves granting and revoking keys. Granting is doable, but revokation is a harder and is being worked on by multiple parties, without a solution.

If you want to encrypt the keys or content, it's easier with a single user. If you want to use encryption with multiwriters, that's another bag which also hasn't been solved.

The concept of identity in OrbitDB currently centers on a single user associated with a public key. To do more than this, you may need a different access controller. [@3box](https://github.com/3box) has a modified access controller plugin, [3box-orbitdb-plugins](https://github.com/3box/3box-orbitdb-plugins), which is worth looking at for how to do this.

|  |  Non-Encrypted | Encrypted |
| ----- | ----- | ---- |
| Single Writer | Default | Requires encryption key management |
| Multi Writer | Difficulty w/ granting + revocation    | Difficulty w/ granting + revocation AND sharing encryption keys     |

We'd love to add multi-writer support to OrbitDB! The maintainers at Haja are currently not working on anything related to it though but would be happy to help. Your best bet is to jump on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/orbitdb/Lobby) and ask us where the current efforts are.
