# OrbitDB Community Call 2019.11.26

- **Moderator:** @aphelionz
- **Notetaker:** @RichardLitt
- **Attendees:**
- @shamb0t
- @aphelionz
- @oed
- Michael Sterle-Contada
- @RichardLitt

## Agenda

### Update on 0.23 (@shamb0t)
- Just around the corner! \o/
- Four PRs left until next release:
- https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db-identity-provider/pull/53 
- https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db/pull/731
- https://github.com/orbitdb/ipfs-log/pull/275 
    - Changing the structure of the entries. They'll still have all of the same properties, but will also have `refs`. These will replace next, which right now has 64 pointers. `refs` will have powers of 2, instead, which means more than 2^6th. 
    - `next` will still be there. But it'll only point to the ref directly behind it.
- https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db-io/pull/8

- One issue we are having is adding pinning. A lot of people are adding about pinning stores. This is a huge perf hit, which is unfortunate. Not sure if this is a dep issue, or something else... hundreds of peers to less than 10.
    - @oed doesn't know, but normally doesn't await the promise. We'll try that. Thanks Joel.

### 3Box help

<!-- Since 3box shows up, they get to ask questions! If you, O reader, want to show up, please do. :) --> 

<!-- @RichardLitt lost the thread, and didn't take notes. He apologizes. -->

- something that would speed things up: Right now, when you exchange heads betwene tow nodes, you open the store, then load the store into memory, then you send the head into the other node. You can grab the head and send it over the network directly.
    - @shamb0t Yeah, that works. That's a better fix than @zack's PR, I think.
    - @oed I think so, but I don't remember exactly.
    - @shamb0t One suggestion was to load before head exchange, which we're not doing right now. You have to do the exchange twice. The fix was to do the await load before connecting to pubsub/doing head exchange. This works better, just send the heads over.
    - @oed Yeah, we need to create an issue about that. We can discuss on there too.
    - @shamb0t I don't think there's any issue.
    - @aphelionz I think opening the store and loading it was a brute force way, but another way to do it reliably would be better.
    - @oed One IPFS is graph-sync: you can take a hash and then specify some query, the IPFS object that it refers to, and then you can getch the entire thing. That's cool.
    - @aphelionz: Let's keep an eye on that! That's cool. Shams, that's like batch-get. Is that one server round trip?
    - @oed Yeah, I think so. I don't know if there are benefits if you're pushing something really large or pushing from multiple nodes.

- Anything else? 

- @Michael: Just joined @3box recently, you guys are doing great work ,having fun playing with OrbitDB
- @RichardLitt: I went through and rebased @shamb0t's workshop. Go check it out if you want https://github.com/orbitdb/web3-workshop
- @oed Are there any changes that need to be considered for 0.21 to 0.22, in mind for 0.23?
    - @aphelionz I don't think so. Minimal changes, really.
    - @shamb0t I don't believe there are any breaking changes from 0.22 to 0.23. Once you upgrade to .23, even versions at version 1 won't benefit from the loading, becuase they won't have those references.
    - @RichardLitt I'll make a note about semantic versioning in the Contributing.
- @oed Any plans for getting to 1.0?
    - @aphelionz We want to, but not yet! Security auditing is the main thing. We'll get there.
